as the new year begins commercial
Maritime traffic on the sez Canal is
down by nearly a third compared to a
year ago and 23ds of container ships
cancel their Suez bookings just last
week as houes continue their attacks on
Commercial vessels major firms have
stopped using the canal so where are
they going many are sailing around the
southern tip of Africa containership
traffic at the Cape of Good Hope Has
nearly doubled but vessels carrying oil
liquefied natural gas metals and grains
are all o diverting to the southern
passage and that's not only due to the
conflict in the Red Sea traffic at the
Panama Canal half a world away has also
been reduced due to Drought if you for
example we're talking about a container
vessel that was coming from Asia to
Europe that usually takes 35 days to go
from Asia to Europe uh so by adding
another 10 child days on top of that
that means that the rotations between
Asia and Europe are going to be less on
a year so that means that the caring
Capac capacity of the vessel and the
company as well is going to drop and
that kind of carrying capacity is the
problem because that's how the shipping
companies are making money sailing
around Africa to avoid the Red Sea adds
over 3,500 nautical miles 10 extra days
and millions of dollars to a trip
between Europe and Asia fuel makes up
half of a vessel's operational cost and
more fuel means more emissions and
that's just as the European Union is
charging new tariffs at its ports to
curb them and for us more expensive
Goods just as governments are trying to
ease inflation developing countries that
rely on food commodities already
diverted due to the war in Ukraine could
be hit again of course another thing we
have to keep in mind is that when all
the vessels are going to arrive in 20
days from today because at the moment
they're taking a detour and they're
diversifying around Africa but when all
those vessels are going to arrive into
the ports then maybe we're going to see
some kind of um congestion over there
follow in the 1967 Arab Israeli War the
Suz Canal was closed for 7 years in
today's more connected World these few
Crossings are even more
valuable make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer